[Born to Be Alive]
[Episode 33]
The worst case back then
was County Mayor Duojie.
You know about that too?
Yes.
When his condition was at its worst,
he came to our hospital for an X-ray.
I was the attending doctor.
I remember it clearly.
The X-ray back then showed
he had bone spur formations.
So,
can the medical records and X-rays
still be found?
They should still be
in the County Hospital archives.
But it's been so many years.
I'm not sure if they're still there.
I'll check for you later.
Okay.
I've been busy lately
and can't look after you.
Grandma has a bad back,
so she can't pick you up from school.
After school,
go to Grandma's house by yourself.
Okay.
Your dad will take you to school tomorrow.
You haven't been fighting lately,
have you?
Who fights anymore?
I get along so well
with Sun Luowen now.
We're best friends.
Who is Sun Yiwen?
The one who pulled my pigtails.
I've told you so many times.
You never remember.
Erzi's Mom!
Bring the big wooden basin
over to me.
My goodness.
I really caught this wave.
The Provincial Commission and Provincial Government
have always prioritized
ecological protection,
especially
since the 18th National Congress.
The wooden basin was placed in the yard,
and filled with water.
and pour the fish down.
The meeting proposed
that prioritizing ecological protection
must be implemented in all aspects.
When development
conflicts with protection,
we must never sacrifice the ecology
and environment
for temporary economic growth.
Don't move. Sit still.
Regarding increasing protection
for the Bolamula Nature Reserve,
and comprehensively rectifying
and regulating
the development order
of the Tianduo Coal Field,
a series of measures were proposed.
In response
to national environmental policies,
the provincial committee and the provincial government
[Qinghai Provincial People's Government]
to impose a comprehensive mining ban
on all coal mines
in the Tianduo Coalfield.
The billions in mining rights involved
will be completely withdrawn.
This is not just
an ordinary administrative order.
It is a self-revolution
in Qinghai's environmental history.
It is an ecological responsibility
Qinghai shoulders
for the nation and all of humanity.
When the mining pits fall silent,
and the slag heaps are covered
by green grass,
I suddenly understood.
The Bolamula
that I've been dreaming of.
Those days and nights
of patrolling the mountains.
They turned out to be just the prologue
to this ecological awakening.
And today,
our efforts
will finally find their answer
in the surging of the Three Rivers.
The provincial committee and provincial government
have approved
the Implementation Plan
for the Comprehensive Rectification
of the Tianduo Coal Field.
[Secretary of Municipal Council of Zhongqu, Li Jianjun]
Effective immediately,
mining operations in all zones
of the Tianduo Coal Field
must stop at once.
All enterprises
must complete the aftermath work
as soon as possible
and withdraw gradually.
Relevant departments will organize forces
to carry out cinder cleanup,
slope management,
pit backfilling,
and grassland regreening
in all mining areas.
After the coal mine closed,
the capital income
will definitely be reduced.
The impact is multifaceted,
But environmental protection
is the trend.
I hope everyone
does not pit economic development
against environmental protection.
We must deeply recognize
the ecological status of Qinghai Province.
Prioritizing ecological protection
is a vital spirit
that must be resolutely implemented
from the state
down to the local level.
Everyone
must take a responsible attitude
toward the country,
the people,
and future generations
to complete the important task
of environmental protection.
Comrade Lin Peisheng.
Comrades.
The city currently
has five coal mines.
Distributed among them are
19 slag hills
and 11 mining pits
of varying depths.
Considering that carrying out
ecological restoration projects
in high-altitude mining areas
is a national first,
and there is no successful experience
to draw upon,
regarding how to improve the soil,
what grass varieties to choose,
and what the survival rate will be,
we all have to
feel our way forward.
We have formed an expert group
to work with us
to draw up a treatment plan.
In addition,
after much consideration and discussion,
we believe
we can select
one or two enterprises
to take charge of the regreening.
The enterprises must have advantages
in capital,
technology,
and personnel.
We can better coordinate
all aspects of the work
to ensure the regreening project
proceeds smoothly.
Manager Bai.
A comprehensive mining ban.
So we’re shutting it down completely?
Is that what you mean?
That's exactly what it means.
The policy has been handed down.
There are no other possibilities.
Shutting down completely?
So everyone's unemployed now?
As for my old employees,
I won't even mention them.
But the mine just hired
a dozen professionals this year.
All the postgraduates and undergraduates
have to go back?
Is Tianduo City going to shut down?
The sky is falling.
Do you think this is just
corporate downsizing?
It's useless complaining to me here.
This is the general trend.
Forget about old or new employees.
Right now, whether the entire Xinhai
can survive
is the real question.
Go back to the salt field.
Forget it.
Don't become a target,
nor block the way.
Wait until the storm passes.
Especially regarding those
small mine owners.
Pay them what's owed as soon as possible
and appease them.
Don't let anyone get a handle on you.
The city's current policy
is to have a smooth transition.
And your Xinhai
is the key focus.
Director Huang,
how much I've done over the years,
you know the truth.
You're really acting like
you use people when you need them
and discard them when you don't.
Key focus, huh?
Fine.
Should I invite the comrades
from the Discipline Inspection Commission
to come check my books too?
Feng Keqing!
You're just looking for someone to blame,
aren't you?
The mining ban
is an order
from the provincial government.
How can you expect
a low-ranking division-level official
to stop it?
I don't care if it's from the province
or anywhere.
Anyway, Xinhai can't stop.
Let me tell you something.
During the meeting today,
Lin Peisheng brought up
the regreening project.
If this thing is done well,
everyone can benefit from it.
What do you mean?
Regreening?
What can you earn from planting grass?
You want me to plant cows?
What's the rush?
Are you stupid
after digging coal these years?
Who told you
environmental protection is charity?
Environmental protection
is an engineering project.
Do you understand now?
It's so exhausting talking to you.
Zhuling.
Stop doing. Time to eat.
Come here.
Stop, stop.
Dad, actually, I'm not very hungry.
You're not fat.
You don't need to lose weight.
Stop doing your homework.
No.
After school,
Sun Luowen and I
went to get roasted buns.
His treat.
Then you don't have to eat.
Don't have it.
You'll get indigestion if you eat more.
Here.
Look.
I kept something up his sleeve.
Is it good?
It's good.
I didn't use sugar.
I added honey.
You're amazing.
Right?
I think so too.
This smoothie,
it's my first time making it.
Can you taste
what's in it?
No.
I was talking about
Sun Luowen and I.
I realized that
if I talk to him nicely,
he understands.
There's no need
to get physical over a disagreement.
Right. You can't.
Dad, add some honey for me.
Let me tell you.
Your personality
takes after your mom.
Too impatient. Like a hedgehog.
But sometimes,
when people interact...
Actually, relationships
can't be rushed.
You have to take it slow.
Look at me, a while ago
work wasn't going well for me.
I was anxious.
But later,
once the environmental policy
was implemented,
everything got better.
Right?
What's wrong?
Zhuling.
What did you
put in there?
How is she?
It's
acute urticaria.
What did you give her?
We gave her
Dexamethasone.
Fortunately,
I didn't put much mango
in the smoothie.
If she had gone into anaphylactic shock,
it would have been serious.
When Zhuling
just started elementary school,
Bai Shao sent a box
of mangoes from Guangzhou.
She had an allergic reaction
after eating them
and was hospitalized for a week.
Did you forget?
Sorry.
I'm sorry.
Shao Yunfei.
I misspoke earlier.
I know
you are a competent reporter.
But you really aren't
a competent father.
But in life,
you can't have it both ways.
You should go back.
Go be a good reporter.
At least you can be
of some value.
Go home first,
and get some things for Zhuling.
I'll stay here to take care of her.
Are you still feeling unwell?
How did you know I was faking sleep?
Since you were little,
when you faked sleep,
you would always
sniffle.
Just like your mom.
Uncle,
my dad didn't mean to.
I wasn't paying attention either
and didn't taste it.
Although sometimes
he is quite annoying,
sometimes,
he's pretty different.
Unlike you,
unlike Mom,
and unlike other dads,
he's different.
Can you please not send him away?
If he leaves,
I won't have a dad anymore.
Where is Zhuling?
She's in the ward.
Bai Chun is with Zhuling.
I'm sorry.
I really...
No, it's me. It was my negligence.
Let go of me.
I don't want to talk to you right now.
Really, I forgot.
I didn't think about that.
I'm sorry, okay?
I was wrong.
I really was wrong.
Do you have to talk about this now?
Let's talk when you're free.
When will you be free?
Or rather, your free time,
when can you
spare some for me?
These past few days, let alone seeing you,
I couldn't even
get through to your phone.
I told you I was busy.
With the nature of our jobs,
can't you understand?
But if it were me,
I would still save
some time for you.
When I was stationed in Mazhi,
I stayed for three years.
What I cared about
wasn't the promotion after returning.
It was because you were in Mazhi,
that I was willing to stay there.
You used to say,
if a place holds no one you care about,
you won't stay, no matter how nice it is.
Shao Yunfei,
you're not the only one compromising,
or making sacrifices.
After Zhuling was born,
in order to give her
a better environment,
didn't we
move to Tianduo?
Yes.
That was your biggest compromise.
I understand.
I know.
Captain's case
is very important to you.
But I thought I,
or rather this family,
would also have a place in your heart.
At least an equal place.
Even after we separated,
that's what I still believed.
Now it seems
I was wrong.
If that's what you think,
there's nothing I can do.
I always thought
we were different from those
divorced couples.
Have we been apart too long?
Do we not even have
that understanding anymore?
We divorced because
whenever I see you,
I think of
our days in the Mountain Patrol.
I keep telling myself,
"It's all in the past.
It's all in the past.
Don't think about it anymore."
But it turns out,
life after that
became increasingly meaningless.
I thought maybe
if I didn't see you,
I'd feel a bit better.
But maybe not seeing you
would be even harder.
That year or so in the Mountain Patrol
was the most important time
of my life.
So important that
if I were to carry it forever,
I feel
so suffocating.
That feeling,
maybe only you can understand.
Have you eaten?
No.
Go down and buy two meals.
I haven't eaten either.
Wu Jiang.
Don't think
that just because you stay silent,
we can't do anything to you.
Your girlfriend, Shen Yuhong,
came to ask about you again.
Don't you want
to clear things up
and see her sooner?
Let's stop here.
Okay.
Wu Jiang.
If you confirm it's correct,
sign,
and press your fingerprint.
Captain. Captain.
He swallowed athepen!
Spit it out!
Wu Jiang!
Get the pen out!
Pry his mouth...
Pry his mouth open.
Get it out.
Spit it out!
Is there any progress
on the regreening project?
Director Huang
has sent over
the experts' proposal.
We are currently
working on the budget
based on that proposal.
It's not cheap, is it?
The startup capital
is at least 200 million.
As for the follow-up,
it depends on the provincial funding.
Do they think my money
grows on trees?
But this is enough to scare off
those companies
that want to
compete with us.
Hello.
Okay.
I got it.
That was Lawyer Xu.
It went according to plan.
Wu Jiang is in the hospital now.
Send him away.
Go arrange it.
Bai.
Dr. Liu.
What are you doing here?
My child is hospitalized for an allergy.
She's on a drip now.
Is it serious?
It's fine. She's much better.
That's good.
Just in time.
The X-rays
ma'am asked me to look for.
I found them.
Could you bring them back?
What X-ray?
Are these really Captain Duojie's?
Yes.
Look here.
Here.
It's a clear case
of bone spur formation.
That's why back then,
his lower back always hurt.
Also,
his gastritis was very severe.
County Mayor Duojie
really didn't pay enough attention
to his own health.
But back then,
our hospital didn't have a gastroscope.
Otherwise, with a gastroscopy,
early detection and treatment,
it might not have become
such a big issue.
Okay.
Understood.
Captain.
Zhao and the team
are on their way.
Wait for the surgery to end,
and you can go back.
When the surgery is over,
don't leave him unattended.
He's doing this
because he's about to crack.
Understood.
Where is he?
Over there.
He ran that way.
Hello.
Please show me your ID.
Take care.
A peach tree living for 4 years
doesn’t mean it’s thriving.
A jujube tree can appear dead for 3 years
yet still be alive.
You take care, too.
Wu Jiang kept saying
someone was framing him.
It looks like
this person not only wants Wu Jiang
to take the fall,
but more importantly,
they don't want us
to keep investigating.
The driver involved in the crash
has been brought back.
He claims
the brakes failed.
Whether it was intentional or an accident
is hard to tell right now.
Investigate everything
about him.
Don't interrogate him just yet.
Okay.
Here.
Yes.
Is it this piece?
It's osteophyte.
Based on the timeline,
this osteophyte appeared
shortly after Captain Duojie's
accident.
It couldn't just disappear.
Even with wear and degradation,
it wouldn't completely wear away
the original abrasion
and the parts that have been created.
I think your theory
makes sense.
These remains
might not belong to Duojie.
Chief.
These
are all obvious facts.
How can we not consider it?
Who said we aren't considering it?
But how can we be certain
based on just a bone spur
less than two centimeters wide?
Then explain to me
the items found
next to the body.
What about the bullet
fired from Qimaer's gun?
How do you explain that?
All this evidence
points to Duojie.
Are you just ignoring all of that?
Even if all the evidence points to Duojie,
as long as
there is one piece of evidence
that disproves it,
we shouldn't verify it.
Wu Jiang died
under such strange circumstances.
We shouldn't simply assume
that Wu Jiang killed Duojie
out of revenge.
There might be another mastermind
behind this.
You're right.
Your most important task now
is to get to the bottom
of Wu Jiang's death for me.
Here.
Take a look.
See which one looks good.
[Mazhi County Cultural Mausoleum]
Did you ask Cairen what he wants?
I did.
Cairen still wants
to choose a cemetery
in Mazhi County.
After all, Mazhi
is Duojie's hometown.
True.
All I picked out are double plots.
Many old colleagues in Mazhi
donated money.
and chose this 15,000 yuan one.
But Madam Zhu thinks
the 10,000 yuan one
is also fine.
My father-in-law's funeral
was held here back then.
There's no substantial progress
on the skeleton case right now.
The identity verification of the skeleton
keeps getting delayed.
Shi.
Logically speaking,
you are right.
As an outsider,
I shouldn't say too much.
But emotionally speaking,
we all know the truth.
Besides,
there's so much supporting evidence.
My only regret
is that the killer
while on the run,
died in an accident.
He didn't face justice.
Seventeen years have passed.
This matter
finally has a conclusion.
Our old leader in Mazhi,
Secretary Chen,
calls me
every now and then.
He says once the case is closed,
he'll apply to have Duojie
recognized as a martyr.
Understood.
I have to chip in, too.
Let's get this 15,000 one.
I'll keep a close eye
on the task force.
I'll make them get results
as soon as possible.
Okay.
Near the hospital, Wu Jiang
stole a car.
Surveillance shows that
ten minutes before the accident,
his car stopped here
for 3 minutes.
Then he walked into Jiege Lane.
When he came out,
he was holding
a black travel bag,
and then drove away.
Can we get fingerprints?
No complete fingerprints.
The fabric of the travel bag
is too rough.
Who gave him this bag?
Does this lane
have any other exits?
There is one other exit.
But the surveillance cameras there
were broken,
and are under maintenance,
so they didn't capture anything.
Captain Bai.
Could it be that Wu Jiang
planned to run away long ago
and hid the money here in advance?
Unlikely.
Wu Jiang doesn't seem like
someone that meticulous.
If he were that calculating,
he wouldn't act so flashy
usually.
Besides,
he couldn't confirm
when he would
be interrogated
or when
he would have a chance to escape.
So,
this must have been
a spur-of-the-moment action that night.
You mean
someone gave it to him in person?
Who could it be?
Our next step is to investigate
Wu Jiang's social circle.
Check what they were doing
at the time of the crime.
This person
could contact Wu Jiang on short notice
and possesses some
counter-reconnaissance
awareness.
Let's investigate in this direction first.
Okay, got it.
Bai, it's meeting time.
I need to interrogate
the hit-and-run driver later.
Tell him to postpone it.
It's not Captain Xie calling the meeting.
It's the Chief
calling a task force meeting.
What for?
The current
[Missing Person]
forensic report shows that
the body's age,
height, and other physical features
match County Mayor Duojie's
almost perfectly.
What about the clothes
found near the body?
Mostly rotted away.
Only a few buttons remain,
which are a basic match
to the button of clothes
County Mayor Duojie wore when alive.
Then it's highly probable
that the remains
belong to County Mayor Duojie.
Xia Jie, based on
the new X-ray I found,
has raised an objection.
The lack of bone spur on the bones
is a major suspicious point.
Xia Jie only proved that
the bone spur doesn't match Duojie's
medical records.
But these remains
were already highly
skeletonized.
In burial cases like this,
hyperplastic tissue
is easily eroded.
But we can't ignore
the newly discovered evidence.
Bai Ju.
You are using 1% of
uncertainty
to question 99% of
the complete chain of evidence.
Chief,
isn't investigating that 1%
exactly what
we do?
With that 1% of
uncertainty,
who can guarantee
that the conclusion drawn
is 100% the truth?
From Wu Jiang's car,
a gun was suddenly found.
The origin of this gun
is inconclusive.
It's suspicious.
He self-harmed to undergo surgery
and still knew the escape route.
It's suspicious.
After he escaped,
from whom did he
get a large sum of cash,
before suddenly being killed by a car?
It's suspicious.
These doubts make me suspect
that someone is plotting
to cover up
the truth about Duojie's disappearance.
This further proves
we should be cautious in determining
the identity of the remains.
No one is being careless.
The Ministry of Public Security
Identification Center instructor
told us during training
that
apart from DNA,
all identification techniques
can only disprove,
they cannot serve as
the sole basis for confirmation.
But since Duojie
has no immediate family DNA
to provide evidence,
biologically speaking,
100% certainty
can never be obtained.
So what do we do?
Ignoring 99%
of the evidence is gone at the scene?
Right?
Just keep dragging this out?
Drag it out until we retire?
How do we answer to
the family?
How do we answer to the people
of Tianduo and Mazhi?
Bai Ju.
Duojie wasn't just your Captain.
He was my leader too.
Think about it.
Meeting adjourned.
Let's go. Interrogate the driver.
I'm giving you a chance to come clean now.
Who put you up to this?
I've said it many times.
It was brake failure.
Lies.
The traffic police
accident report shows
the brake system
was sabotaged.
Wednesday at 4 PM,
the repair shop surveillance caught
you working under the car.
The footage is very clear.
Do you need me to
pull it up for you?
You were deliberately sabotaging
the brakes.
Weren't you?
That was routine maintenance.
You can check
the work orders.
Why would I
sabotage my own brakes?
To kill Wu Jiang.
To stage a car accident
and silence him.
Let me tell you,
your boss has already confessed.
He ordered you to do it.
Now I'm giving you a chance
to speak for yourself.
I... What?
What silencing?
I don't understand.
Think carefully.
If you confess honestly,
you're just an accomplice.
You won't be in for long.
But if you refuse to cooperate,
we will
inform the court
and ask for a heavy sentence.
You might never see
your child again.
No...
Officer,
what do you want me to confess?
I just didn't brake in time.
I am guilty.
It's not too late
to change your statement.
Tell me.
Is there a criminal gang
threatening you?
Threatening your family?
Criminal gang?
Tell me!
Bai Ju!
Stop.
Speak!
Who is it?
Come out!
He was about to confess.
[Chief's Office]
Surveillance shows
that Wu Jiang's trunk
might have been opened.
But this person,
he avoided the cameras.
While Wu Jiang was running,
he received
a large sum of cash.
The person who handed it over
also avoided surveillance.
They have
strong counter-reconnaissance skills.
I suspect
the person who planted the gun
on Wu Jiang,
then gave him money,
and ordered the truck driver
to kill him,
is likely the same person.
The most direct lead we have now
is right in front of us.
It's that
truck driver.
So I want to find a breakthrough
as soon as possible
to dig out the person behind this.
You asked me to investigate
Wu Jiang's death.
That's what I'm doing.
I'm sure you've realized too.
There's one
obvious truth.
That person didn't want
Wu Jiang to talk.
He wanted Wu Jiang
to take the truth to his grave.
Okay.
High suspicion,
bold assumptions.
But you don't have a shred of evidence.
Do you think the Procuratorate will accept
confessions obtained this way?
Do I need to remind you
of the regulations set
by the Supreme People's Procuratorate
and the Ministry of Public Security?
Threats,
inducement, coaching, and deception.
You almost ticked all the boxes
in less than five minutes.
Bai Ju,
what exactly are you trying to do?
Five minutes.
But do you know,
for these short five minutes,
I've waited 17 years.
Seventeen years ago,
those people used the same kind
of car accident
to target me.
I survived by sheer luck.
But little Zhang Yang...
Back then,
as a young police officer,
I wasn't mature enough.
Our criminal investigation methods
were also very limited.
There were no surveillance cameras.
So in the end,
it could only be classified and handled
as an ordinary traffic accident.
After Li Yongqiang was shot dead
at the Qima'er Gold Mine,
the truth of that incident
was buried forever.
Zhang Yang's death,
the real culprit
behind the gold mine case,
and Captain Duojie's disappearance.
Chief,
all these years,
I haven't had a single good night's sleep.
I'm afraid that
I'll dream of them.
I can't face them.
Zhang Yang,
He Qingyuan,
and Captain Duojie.
The truth of the past
and the present
shouldn't be hastily buried
without clarity.
Chief,
as a police officer,
I admit
I lost my cool just now.
But please understand me.
Please give me a little more time.
I just need a little time.
Bai Ju,
we've worked together for so many years.
You have always been
a trustworthy
comrade.
For many issues,
you reflect on them yourself
without needing correction from others.
So now,
just as you said,
you are no longer calm.
I'll tell Xie Yang
to let you go back and rest for a while.
Chief,
do you mean
for me to leave the task force?
As a police officer,
you must never let emotions control you
at any time.
I think if Duojie were here,
he would say the same.
♪ Where the forest grows lush and dense ♪
♪ Rhododendrons sing
across the snowy plateau ♪
♪ When your song begins ♪
♪ Spring quietly arrives ♪
♪ Though you are
but a creature of the wild ♪
♪ Your voice sounds like music
from the heavens ♪
♪ Flying in from afar ♪
I haven't seen
this kind of wine in a long time.
Does it still taste the same?
Try it.
Still tastes awful.
Here.
It's delicious.
It's still sizzling.
Smells great.
You guys eat, too.
Does watching me make you full?
Bai.
I heard things aren't going well at work.
We know you have rules.
We're not asking you to say anything.
If you're unhappy, just come eat meat.
We have plenty.
Then I'll come every day.
I'm on leave now.
I have plenty of time.
About Captain's case,
it hasn't been cleared up yet.
I...
In the future, I might not even
be able to wear the police uniform.
If I really take off my police uniform,
you think I'd want your security uniform?
Put this on.
It's cold.
Shao.
Stop there.
You invited him?
He came to me to drown his sorrows.
He cried even more than Han.
Said you don't love him anymore.
You reminded me.
I remember now.
Go get your...
that highland barley wine.
-Hurry up.
-Okay.
The meat is ready.
Smells so good.
Why are you looking at me?
You look really good in that outfit.